Weshall therefore present in some detail a positive program for
common-stock investment, part of which is within the purview ofboth classes of investors and part is intended mainly for the enter-prising group. Strangely enough, we shall suggest as one of our

chief requirements here that our readers limit themselves to issues

selling not far above their tangible-asset value.* The reason for 

this seemingly outmoded counsel is both practical and psychologi-
cal. Experience has taught us that, while there are many good
growth companies worth several times net assets, the buyer of
such shares will be too dependent on the vagaries and fluctuations

of the stock market. By contrast, the investor in shares, say, of 
public-utility companies at about their net-asset value can alwaysconsider himself the owner of an interest in sound and expanding

businesses, acquired at a rational price—regardless of what the

stock market might say to the contrary. The ultimate result of such

a conservative policy is likely to work out better than exciting
adventures into the glamorous and dangerous fields of anticipated
growth.
The art of investment has one characteristic that is not generallyappreciated. Acreditable, if unspectacular, result can be achieved
by the lay investor with a minimum of effort and capability; but to

improve this easily attainable standard requires much application

and more than a trace of wisdom. If you merely try to bring 
just alittleextra knowledge and cleverness to bear upon your investmentprogram, instead of realizing a little better than normal results, you

may well find that you have done worse.Since anyone—by just buying and holding a representative
list—can equal the performance of the market averages, it would
seem a comparatively simple matter to “beat the averages”; but asa matter of fact the proportion of smart people who try this and fail
is surprisingly large. Even the majority of the investment funds,

with all their experienced personnel, have not performed so wellWhat This Book Expects to Accomplish9
*Tangible assets include a company’s physical property (like real estate,
factories, equipment, and inventories) as well as its financial balances (such

as cash, short-term investments, and accounts receivable). Among the ele-
ments not included in tangible assets are brands, copyrights, patents, fran-

chises, goodwill, and trademarks. To see how to calculate tangible-asset

value, see footnote † on p. 198.
over the years as has the general market. Allied to the foregoing 
is the record of the published stock-market predictions of the 
brokerage houses, for there is strong evidence that their calculated
forecasts have been somewhat less reliable than the simple tossing

of a coin.In writing this book we have tried to keep this basic pitfall ofinvestment in mind. The virtues of a simple portfolio policy have
been emphasized—the purchase of high-grade bonds plus a diver-
sified list of leading common stocks—which any investor can carryout with a little expert assistance. The adventure beyond this safe

and sound territory has been presented as fraught with challeng-
ing difficulties, especially in the area of temperament. Before
attempting such a venture the investor should feel sure of himself

and of his advisers—particularly as to whether they have a clear
concept of the differences between investment and speculation and

between market price and underlying value.Astrong-minded approach to investment, firmly based on the
margin-of-safety principle, can yield handsome rewards. But a

decision to try for these emoluments rather than for the assured

fruits of defensive investment should not be made without much
self-examination.Afinal retrospective thought. When the young author entered
Wall Street in June 1914 no one had any inkling of what the next

half-century had in store. (The stock market did not even suspect
that a World War was to break out in two months, and close down

the New York Stock Exchange.) Now, in 1972, we find ourselves the
richest and most powerful country on earth, but beset by all sorts
of major problems and more apprehensive than confident of the
future. Yet if we confine our attention to American investment
experience, there is some comfort to be gleaned from the last 57
years. Through all their vicissitudes and casualties, as earth-

shaking as they were unforeseen, it remained true that sound
investment principles produced generally sound results. We must
act on the assumption that they will continue to do so.Note to the Reader:This book does not address itself to the 
overallfinancial policy of savers and investors; it deals only with that 
portion of their funds which they are prepared to place in mar-

ketable (or redeemable) securities, that is, in bonds and stocks.
10Introduction
Consequently we do not discuss such important media as savingsand time desposits, savings-and-loan-association accounts, lifeinsurance, annuities, and real-estate mortgages or equity owner-
ship. The reader should bear in mind that when he finds the word

“now,” or the equivalent, in the text, it refers to late 1971 or 

early 1972.What This Book Expects to Accomplish11
COMMENTARY ON THE INTRODUCTION
If you have built castles in the air, your work need not be lost;
that is where they should be. Now put the foundations underthem.—Henry David Thoreau,
Walden
Notice that Graham announces from the start that this book will not
tell you how to beat the market. No truthful book can.Instead, this book will teach you three powerful lessons:
•how you can minimize the odds of suffering irreversible losses;

•how you can maximize the chances of achieving sustainable gains;

•how you can control the self-defeating behavior that keeps most
investors from reaching their full potential.
Back in the boom years of the late 1990s, when technology stocks
seemed to be doubling in value every day, the notion that you could

lose almost all your money seemed absurd. But, by the end of 2002,
many of the dot-com and telecom stocks had lost 95% of their value
or more. Once you lose 95% of your money, you have to gain 1,900%
just to get back to where you started.
1Taking a foolish risk can put
you so deep in the hole that it’s virtually impossible to get out. That’s

why Graham constantly emphasizes the importance of avoiding

losses—not just in Chapters 6, 14, and 20, but in the threads of warn-ing that he has woven throughout his entire text.But no matter how careful you are, the price of your investmentswillgo down from time to time. While no one can eliminate that risk,
121Toput this statement in perspective, consider how often you are likely to
buy a stock at $30 and be able to sell it at $600.
Commentary on the Introduction
13Graham will show you how to manage it—and how to get your fearsunder control.ARE YOU AN INTELLIGENT INVESTOR?
Now let’s answer a vitally important question. What exactly does Gra-
ham mean by an “intelligent” investor? Back in the first edition of this

book, Graham defines the term—and he makes it clear that this kind of
intelligence has nothing to do with IQ or SAT scores. 
It simply meansbeing patient, disciplined, and eager to learn; you must also be able toharness your emotions and think for yourself. This kind of intelligence,
explains Graham, “is a trait more of the character than of the brain.”
2There’s proof that high IQ and higher education are not enough to
make an investor intelligent. In 1998, Long-Term Capital Management
L.P., a hedge fund run by a battalion of mathematicians, computer 

scientists, and two Nobel Prize–winning economists, lost more than 
$2 billion in a matter of weeks on a huge bet that the bond market
would return to “normal.” But the bond market kept right on becoming

more and more abnormal—and LTCM had borrowed so much money
that its collapse nearly capsized the global financial system.3And back in the spring of 1720, Sir Isaac Newton owned shares in
the South Sea Company, the hottest stock in England. Sensing that
the market was getting out of hand, the great physicist muttered that
he “could calculate the motions of the heavenly bodies, but not themadness of the people.” Newton dumped his South Sea shares, pock-
eting a 100% profit totaling £7,000. But just months later, swept up in

the wild enthusiasm of the market, Newton jumped back in at a much
higher price—and lost £20,000 (or more than $3 million in today’smoney). For the rest of his life, he forbade anyone to speak the words

“South Sea” in his presence.42Benjamin Graham, The Intelligent Investor
(Harper & Row, 1949), p. 4.
3A “hedge fund” is a pool of money, largely unregulated by the government,
invested aggressively for wealthy clients. For a superb telling of the LTCM
story, see Roger Lowenstein, 
When Genius Failed
(Random House, 2000).4John Carswell, The South Sea Bubble
(Cresset Press, London, 1960),
pp. 131, 199. Also see www.harvard-magazine.com/issues/mj99/damnd.

html.Sir Isaac Newton was one of the most intelligent people who ever
lived, as most of us would define intelligence. But, in Graham’s terms,Newton was far from an intelligent investor. By letting the roar of the

crowd override his own judgment, the world’s greatest scientist acted
like a fool.In short, if you’ve failed at investing so far, it’s not because you’re
stupid. It’s because, like Sir Isaac Newton, you haven’t developed the

emotional discipline that successful investing requires. In Chapter 8,Graham describes how to enhance your intelligence by harnessing
your emotions and refusing to stoop to the market’s level of irrational-ity. There you can master his lesson that being an intelligent investor is

more a matter of “character” than “brain.”
A CHRONICLE OF CALAMITY
Now let’s take a moment to look at some of the major financial devel-
opments of the past few years:1.The worst market crash since the Great Depression, with U.S.
stocks losing 50.2% of their value—or 
$7.4 trillion
—betweenMarch 2000 and October 2002.
2.Far deeper drops in the share prices of the hottest companies of
the 1990s, including AOL, Cisco, JDS Uniphase, Lucent, and
Qualcomm—plus the utter destruction of hundreds of Internet
stocks.
3.Accusations of massive financial fraud at some of the largest and
most respected corporations in America, including Enron, Tyco,

and Xerox.
4.The bankruptcies of such once-glistening companies as Con-
seco, Global Crossing, and WorldCom.
5.Allegations that accounting firms cooked the books, and even
destroyed records, to help their clients mislead the investing public.6.Charges that top executives at leading companies siphoned off
hundreds of millions of dollars for their own personal gain.7.Proof that security analysts on Wall Street praised stocks publicly
but admitted privately that they were garbage.8.A stock market that, even after its bloodcurdling decline, seems
overvalued by historical measures, suggesting to many experts
that stocks have further yet to fall.
14Commentary on the Introduction
9.A relentless decline in interest rates that has left investors with no
attractive alternative to stocks.
10.An investing environment bristling with the unpredictable menace
of global terrorism and war in the Middle East.Much of this damage could have been (and was!) avoided by
investors who learned and lived by Graham’s principles. As Grahamputs it, “while enthusiasm may be necessary for great accomplish-ments elsewhere, on Wall Street it almost invariably leads to disaster.”
By letting themselves get carried away—on Internet stocks, on big
“growth” stocks, on stocks as a whole—many people made the same
stupid mistakes as Sir Isaac Newton. They let other investors’ judg-

ments determine their own. They ignored Graham’s warning that “the
really dreadful losses” always occur after “the buyer forgot to ask‘How much?’” Most painfully of all, by losing their self-control just

when they needed it the most, these people proved Graham’s asser-tion that “the investor’s chief problem—and even his worst enemy—is

likely to be himself.”
THE SURE THING THAT WASN’T
Many of those people got especially carried away on technology and
Internet stocks, believing the high-tech hype that this industry would
keep outgrowing every other for years to come, if not forever:•In mid-1999, after earning a 117.3% return in just the first five
months of the year, Monument Internet Fund portfolio manager
Alexander Cheung predicted that his fund would gain 50% a year
over the next three to five years and an annual average of 35%“over the next 20 years.”
5Commentary on the Introduction
155Constance Loizos, “Q&A: Alex Cheung,” 
InvestmentNews,May 17, 1999,
p. 38. The highest 20-year return in mutual fund history was 25.8% per year,
achieved by the legendary Peter Lynch of Fidelity Magellan over the two
decades ending December 31, 1994. Lynch’s performance turned $10,000

into more than $982,000 in 20 years. Cheung was predicting that his fund
would turn $10,000 into more than $4 million over the same length of time.

Instead of regarding Cheung as ridiculously overoptimistic, investors threw•After his Amerindo Technology Fund rose an incredible 248.9%
in 1999, portfolio manager Alberto Vilar ridiculed anyone who
dared to doubt that the Internet was a perpetual moneymaking
machine: “If you’re out of this sector, you’re going to underper-

form. You’re in a horse and buggy, and I’m in a Porsche. You 
don’t like tenfold growth opportunities? Then go with someone

else.”
6•In February 2000, hedge-fund manager James J. Cramer pro-
claimed that Internet-related companies “are the only ones worth
owning right now.” These “winners of the new world,” as he called

them, “are the only ones that are going higher consistently in
good days and bad.” Cramer even took a potshot at Graham: “You

have to throw out all of the matrices and formulas and texts that
existed before the Web....If we used any of what Graham and
Dodd teach us, we wouldn’t have a dime under management.”
7All these so-called experts ignored Graham’s sober words of warn-ing: “Obvious prospects for physical growth in a business do nottranslate into obvious profits for investors.” 
While it seems easy to
foresee which industry will grow the fastest, that foresight has no real
value if most other investors are already expecting the same thing. By

the time everyone decides that a given industry is “obviously” the best16Commentary on the Introduction
money at him, flinging more than $100 million into his fund over the nextyear. A $10,000 investment in the Monument Internet Fund in May 1999
would have shrunk to roughly $2,000 by year-end 2002. (The Monument

fund no longer exists in its original form and is now known as OrbitexEmerging Technology Fund.)
6Lisa Reilly Cullen, “The Triple Digit Club,” 
Money,
December, 1999, p. 170.
If you had invested $10,000 in Vilar’s fund at the end of 1999, you would

have finished 2002 with just $1,195 left—one of the worst destructions ofwealth in the history of the mutual-fund industry.
7See www.thestreet.com/funds/smarter/891820.html. Cramer’s favorite
stocks did not go “higher consistently in good days and bad.” By year-end

2002, one of the 10 had already gone bankrupt, and a $10,000 investment
spread equally across Cramer’s picks would have lost 94%, leaving you

with a grand total of $597.44. Perhaps Cramer meant that his stocks would

be “winners” not in “the new world,” but in the world to come.
one to invest in, the prices of its stocks have been bid up so high that
its future returns have nowhere to go but down.For now at least, no one has the gall to try claiming that technology
will still be the world’s greatest growth industry. But make sure you
remember this: The people who now claim that the next “sure thing”

will be health care, or energy, or real estate, or gold, are no more likely

to be right in the end than the hypesters of high tech turned out to be.
THE SILVER LINING
If no price seemed too high for stocks in the 1990s, in 2003 we’ve
reached the point at which no price appears to be low enough. The

pendulum has swung, as Graham knew it always does, from irrationalexuberance to unjustifiable pessimism. In 2002, investors yanked $27
billion out of stock mutual funds, and a survey conducted by the Secu-

rities Industry Association found that one out of 10 investors had cutback on stocks by at least 25%. The same people who were eager to

buy stocks in the late 1990s—when they were going up in price and,
therefore, becoming expensive—sold stocks as they went down in
price and, by definition, became cheaper.
As Graham shows so brilliantly in Chapter 8, this is exactly back-
wards. The intelligent investor realizes that stocks become more risky,

not less, as their prices rise—and less risky, not more, as their prices
fall. The intelligent investor dreads a bull market, since it makes stocks

more costly to buy. And conversely (so long as you keep enough cash
on hand to meet your spending needs), you should welcome a bearmarket, since it puts stocks back on sale.
8So take heart: The death of the bull market is not the bad news
everyone believes it to be. Thanks to the decline in stock prices, now

is a considerably safer—and saner—time to be building wealth. Read

on, and let Graham show you how.
Commentary on the Introduction17
8The only exception to this rule is an investor in the advanced stage of
retirement, who may not be able to outlast a long bear market. Yet even an
elderly investor should not sell her stocks merely because they have gone

down in price; that approach not only turns her paper losses into real ones

but deprives her heirs of the potential to inherit those stocks at lower costs

for tax purposes.
CHAPTER 1Investment versus Speculation: Results toBe Expected by the Intelligent InvestorThis chapter will outline the viewpoints that will be set forth inthe remainder of the book. In particular we wish to develop at the
outset our concept of appropriate portfolio policy for the individ-

ual, nonprofessional investor.
Investment versus SpeculationWhat do we mean by “investor”? Throughout this book the
term will be used in contradistinction to “speculator.” As far back

as 1934, in our textbook Security Analysis,1we attempted a precise
formulation of the difference between the two, as follows: 
“Aninvestment operation is one which, upon thorough analysis prom-
ises safety of principal and an adequate return. Operations not

meeting these requirements are speculative.”
While we have clung tenaciously to this definition over theensuing 38 years, it is worthwhile noting the radical changes that
have occurred in the use of the term “investor” during this period.
After the great market decline of 1929–1932 
allcommon stockswere widely regarded as speculative by nature. (Aleading author-
ity stated flatly that only bonds could be bought for investment.2)Thus we had then to defend our definition against the charge that
it gave too wide scope to the concept of investment.Now our concern is of the opposite sort. We must prevent our
readers from accepting the common jargon which applies the term
“investor” to anybody and everybody in the stock market. In our
last edition we cited the following headline of a front-page article

of our leading financial journal in June 1962:18SMALLINVESTORS BEARISH, THEYARE SELLING ODD-LOTS SHORT
In October 1970 the same journal had an editorial critical of what itcalled “reckless investors,” who this time were rushing in on the

buying side.These quotations well illustrate the confusion that has beendominant for many years in the use of the words investment and

speculation. Think of our suggested definition of investment givenabove, and compare it with the sale of a few shares of stock by an

inexperienced member of the public, who does not even own what
he is selling, and has some largely emotional conviction that he

will be able to buy them back at a much lower price. (It is not irrel-
evant to point out that when the 1962 article appeared the market

had already experienced a decline of major size, and was now get-
ting ready for an even greater upswing. It was about as poor a time
as possible for selling short.) In a more general sense, the later-used

phrase “reckless investors” could be regarded as a laughable con-
tradiction in terms—something like “spendthrift misers”—were
this misuse of language not so mischievous.The newspaper employed the word “investor” in these
instances because, in the easy language of Wall Street, everyone

who buys or sells a security has become an investor, regardless of

what he buys, or for what purpose, or at what price, or whether forcash or on margin. Compare this with the attitude of the public
toward common stocks in 1948, when over 90% of those queried

expressed themselves as opposed to the purchase of common
stocks.3About half gave as their reason “not safe, a gamble,” and
about half, the reason “not familiar with.”* It is indeed ironical
Investment versus Speculation19
*The survey Graham cites was conducted for the Fed by the University of
Michigan and was published in the 
Federal Reserve Bulletin,
July, 1948.
People were asked, “Suppose a man decides not to spend his money. He

can either put it in a bank or in bonds or he can invest it. What do you think

would be the wisest thing for him to do with the money nowadays—put it in
the bank, buy savings bonds with it, invest it in real estate, or buy common

stock with it?” Only 4% thought common stock would offer a “satisfactory”

return; 26% considered it “not safe” or a “gamble.” From 1949 through

1958, the stock market earned one of its highest 10-year returns in history,
(though not surprising) that common-stock purchases of all kinds
were quite generally regarded as highly speculative or risky at a
time when they were selling on a most attractive basis, and due
soon to begin their greatest advance in history; conversely the very

fact they had advanced to what were undoubtedly dangerous lev-

els as judged by past experiencelater transformed them into “invest-ments,” and the entire stock-buying public into “investors.”
The distinction between investment and speculation in commonstocks has always been a useful one and its disappearance is a
cause for concern. We have often said that Wall Street as an institu-

tion would be well advised to reinstate this distinction and to
emphasize it in all its dealings with the public. Otherwise the stockexchanges may some day be blamed for heavy speculative losses,
which those who suffered them had not been properly warned

against. Ironically, once more, much of the recent financial embar-

rassment of some stock-exchange firms seems to have come from

the inclusion of speculative common stocks in their own capitalfunds. We trust that the reader of this book will gain a reasonably
clear idea of the risks that are inherent in common-stock commit-

ments—risks which are inseparable from the opportunities of
profit that they offer, and both of which must be allowed for in the
investor’s calculations.
What we have just said indicates that there may no longer be
such a thing as a simon-pure investment policy comprising repre-

sentative common stocks—in the sense that one can always wait to
buy them at a price that involves no risk of a market or “quota-tional” loss large enough to be disquieting. In most periods the

investor must recognize the existence of a 
speculative factorin hiscommon-stock holdings. It is his task to keep this component
within minor limits, and to be prepared financially and psycholog-
ically for adverse results that may be of short or long duration.
Two paragraphs should be added about stock speculation per
se, as distinguished from the speculative component now inherent
20The Intelligent Investor
averaging 18.7% annually. In a fascinating echo of that early Fed survey, a
poll conducted by BusinessWeek
at year-end 2002 found that only 24% ofinvestors were willing to invest more in their mutual funds or stock portfolios,

down from 47% just three years earlier.
in most representative common stocks. Outright speculation is 
neither illegal, immoral, nor (for most people) fattening to thepocketbook. More than that, some speculation is necessary and
unavoidable, for in many common-stock situations there are sub-

stantial possibilities of both profit and loss, and the risks therein

must be assumed by someone.* There is intelligent speculation as

there is intelligent investing. But there are many ways in which

speculation may be unintelligent. Of these the foremost are: (1)
speculating when you think you are investing; (2) speculating seri-
ously instead of as a pastime, when you lack proper knowledge

and skill for it; and (3) risking more money in speculation than you
can afford to lose.
In our conservative view every nonprofessional who operates
on margin
† should recognize that he is 
ipso factospeculating, and itis his broker’s duty so to advise him. And everyone who buys a

so-called “hot” common-stock issue, or makes a purchase in any
way similar thereto, is either speculating or gambling. Speculation
is always fascinating, and it can be a lot of fun while you are ahead
of the game. If you want to try your luck at it, put aside a portion—
the smaller the better—of your capital in a separate fund for thispurpose. Never add more money to this account just because the
Investment versus Speculation21
*Speculation is beneficial on two levels: First, without speculation, untested
new companies (like Amazon.com or, in earlier times, the Edison Electric
Light Co.) would never be able to raise the necessary capital for expansion.
The alluring, long-shot chance of a huge gain is the grease that lubricates

the machinery of innovation. Secondly, risk is exchanged (but never elimi-
nated) every time a stock is bought or sold. The buyer purchases the primary
risk that this stock may go down. Meanwhile, the seller still retains a residual

risk—the chance that the stock he just sold may go up!
†Amargin account enables you to buy stocks using money you borrow
from the brokerage firm. By investing with borrowed money, you make more

when your stocks go up—but you can be wiped out when they go down. The
collateral for the loan is the value of the investments in your account—so youmust put up more money if that value falls below the amount you borrowed.
For more information about margin accounts, see www.sec.gov/
investor/pubs/margin.htm, www.sia.com/publications/pdf/MarginsA
.pdf, and www.
nyse.com/pdfs/2001_factbook_09.pdf.
